well the Dutch prime minister Mark rer
has called for humanitarian pauses to
allow the flow of Aid into Gaza he made
that call during a visit to Israel and
Palestine well for more we're now joined
by H Abdul Hamed who's in rala in the
occupied West Bank H I understand prime
minister Ruta spoke to you after meeting
with Netanyahu what did he
say yes well he said that they discussed
four main points uh being the the
minimizing as much as possible the
civilian casualties maximizing
humanitarian Aid coming into Gaza also
trying to avoid uh the the threat of
this becoming a regional conflict and
the issue of uh captives held by Hamas
and the foreign Nationals who are in
Gaza the Netherlands having at least 20
Nationals living there and one held
captive by Hamas I also asked him about
the position of the EU and he said that
the EU backed uh Israel's right to
defend itself while making sure that
proportionality is relevant so when I
asked him if 5,000 uh dead among which
2,000 uh children was already was enough
in matter of prop proportionality this
is what he had to
say first of all I cannot judge because
of course I'm right but I cannot judge
whether at a moment um yes or no Israel
is completely
uh working within the lines of
proportionality and international human
law uh humanitarian law I cannot judge
that because I do not know all the
effects on the table this of course is
up to Israel at this moment to navigate
but I very much stress the point and the
practicality of that is the humanitarian
access the practicality of that is
preventing Regional escalation the
practicality of that taking out the
hostages and then foreigners and the
practicality is to do everything and
that's the main issue of preventing
innocent civilians to be um to be uh
killed uh if not
necessary what else did he share with
you in that
interview well I did ask him about
humanitarian Aid especially about the
issue of fuel which is darely needed uh
in Gaza and very quickly I did ask him
if he discussed it with prime minister
netan he said he did I did ask him if he
got any uh commitment that that would
happen uh the only answer I got is that
at the moment he got the impression that
Israel was looking into the issue but we
didn't get any further uh uh information
about that meaning from what I
understood that is not yet on the table
even though Israel is coming under a lot
of pressure H Abdul Hamid there for us
with that report from rala and the
occupied West Bank after speaking to
Mark R thank you so
much